README.md, before:

<div align="center">

# ktb.clubmanager

**Minimal effort club administration - less work than a spreadsheet**

[![CI](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/kbudisantoso/ktb.clubmanager/ci.yml?branch=main&label=CI)](https://github.com/kbudisantoso/ktb.clubmanager/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![License: AGPL v3](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-AGPL_v3-blue.svg)](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0)
[![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-3178C6?logo=typescript&logoColor=fff)](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
[![PRs Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg)](http://makeapullrequest.com)

</div>

## What is this?

ktb.clubmanager is open-source club management software built for German *Vereine*. It combines member management with proper double-entry accounting using the SKR42 chart of accounts.

**Why does this exist?** Most club software either lacks real accounting or costs hundreds per year. ktb.clubmanager is free, web-based, and handles the accounting complexity that volunteer treasurers need.

**Key differentiators:**
- SKR42 chart of accounts (German nonprofit standard)
- SEPA direct debit generation (pain.008 XML)
- German bank CSV import (Sparkasse, VR, DKB, etc.)

## Key Features

- **Member management** - Track members, households, and membership history
- **Fee tracking** - Flexible fee structures, payment status, reminders
- **Double-entry bookkeeping** - SKR42 compliant, proper journal entries
- **SEPA direct debit** - Generate pain.008 files for bank submission
- **Bank import** - Import transactions from German bank CSV exports
- **Multi-tenant** - Manage multiple clubs from one installation

## Screenshots

<div align="center">
<table>
<tr>
<td align="center"><strong>Light Mode</strong></td>
<td align="center"><strong>Dark Mode</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="docs/assets/components-light.png"><img src="docs/assets/components-light.png" alt="Light Mode" width="400"></a></td>
<td><a href="docs/assets/components-dark.png"><img src="docs/assets/components-dark.png" alt="Dark Mode" width="400"></a></td>
</tr>
</table>

<em>UI components built with shadcn/ui and Tailwind CSS v4 (click to enlarge)</em>

</div>

## Quick Start

The fastest way to get started uses VS Code DevContainers:

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/kbudisantoso/ktb.clubmanager.git
   cd ktb.clubmanager
   ```

2. **Open in VS Code** and click "Reopen in Container" when prompted

3. **Start development**
   ```bash
   pnpm dev
   ```

The web app is available at `http://localhost:3000`.

## Development Setup

If you prefer not to use DevContainers, set up manually:

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 20+
- pnpm 10+
- Docker (for PostgreSQL, Redis, MinIO)

### Installation

```bash
git clone https://github.com/kbudisantoso/ktb.clubmanager.git
cd ktb.clubmanager
pnpm install
docker compose up -d
pnpm dev
```

### Common Commands

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `pnpm dev` | Start development servers |
| `pnpm test` | Run all tests |
| `pnpm lint` | Check code quality |
| `pnpm typecheck` | Verify TypeScript types |
| `pnpm prepare-commit` | Run all checks before committing |

## Local Customizations

You can customize the DevContainer without affecting committed files. Edit `.devcontainer/docker-compose.local.yml` (auto-created, gitignored) to add personal volume mounts or environment variables.

See [.devcontainer/README.md](.devcontainer/README.md) for details.

## Architecture

```mermaid
graph TB
    subgraph "Frontend (apps/web)"
        WEB[Next.js 14+]
    end

    subgraph "Backend (apps/api)"
        API[NestJS]
        PRISMA[Prisma ORM]
    end

    subgraph "Shared (packages/shared)"
        TYPES[Types & Zod Schemas]
    end

    subgraph "Infrastructure"
        PG[(PostgreSQL 17<br/>+ pgvector)]
        RD[(Redis 7)]
        MINIO[(MinIO)]
    end

    WEB --> API
    WEB --> TYPES
    API --> TYPES
    API --> PRISMA
    PRISMA --> PG
    API --> RD
    API --> MINIO
```

The project is a **pnpm monorepo** with two applications (`web` and `api`) sharing types and validation schemas through a common package.

## Tech Stack

| Component | Technology | Why |
|-----------|------------|-----|
| Frontend | Next.js 14+, TypeScript, Tailwind, shadcn/ui | Modern React with full-stack TypeScript |
| Backend | NestJS, TypeScript, Prisma | Type safety for financial data |
| Database | PostgreSQL 17 + pgvector | ACID for accounting, vectors for AI semantic search |
| Storage | MinIO (S3-compatible) | Document uploads, receipt images, profile photos |
| Cache | Redis 7 | Session storage, background jobs |
| Auth | NextAuth.js + OIDC | Passwordless OAuth login |

## Roadmap

Track our progress via [GitHub Milestones](https://github.com/kbudisantoso/ktb.clubmanager/milestones):

| Milestone | Status | Description |
|-----------|--------|-------------|
| [M0: Pre-MVP](https://github.com/kbudisantoso/ktb.clubmanager/milestone/1) | ✅ Complete | Repository foundation, DevContainer, CI/CD, documentation |
| [M1: MVP](https://github.com/kbudisantoso/ktb.clubmanager/milestone/2) | 🔄 In Progress | Core features: members, fees, bookkeeping, SEPA |
| [M2-M6](https://github.com/kbudisantoso/ktb.clubmanager/milestones) | 📋 Planned | Post-MVP: working hours, member portal, FinTS |

See all [open issues](https://github.com/kbudisantoso/ktb.clubmanager/issues) for detailed requirements.

## Contributing

We welcome contributions from developers of all experience levels. Whether you want to fix a bug, add a feature, or improve documentation, your help is appreciated.

- Read our [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) guide to get started
- First-time contributors: you'll sign a simple CLA when opening your first PR

## Documentation

- [Architecture Decision Records](docs/adr/) - Why we made key technical decisions
- [API Documentation](docs/api/) - OpenAPI/Swagger documentation (available at `/api/docs` in development)
- [Database Schema](docs/schema/) - Entity relationship diagrams and schema documentation

See [docs/README.md](docs/README.md) for the full documentation index.

## License

ktb.clubmanager is licensed under the [GNU Affero General Public License v3.0](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0).

This means you can use, modify, and distribute the software freely. If you run a modified version as a network service, you must make your source code available to users.

See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for the full license text.

Commit message:

feat(07-03.1): complete Better Auth migration with build fixes
Replace Auth.js/NextAuth with Better Auth for authentication:
- Configure Better Auth with email/password and session handling
- Add Prisma adapter for Better Auth session storage
- Update frontend auth hooks and components
- Remove GoTrue service from Docker Compose

Fix build and runtime issues:
- Add tsconfig.build.json for NestJS to fix output path structure
- Update Prisma generator to prisma-client-js with pg adapter
- Create custom 404 and global error pages for Next.js SSG
- Update TypeScript configs to exclude prisma generated files

README.md, after:

<div align="center">

# ktb.clubmanager

**Minimal effort club administration - less work than a spreadsheet**

[![CI](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/kbudisantoso/ktb.clubmanager/ci.yml?branch=main&label=CI)](https://github.com/kbudisantoso/ktb.clubmanager/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![License: AGPL v3](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-AGPL_v3-blue.svg)](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0)
[![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-3178C6?logo=typescript&logoColor=fff)](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
[![PRs Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg)](http://makeapullrequest.com)

</div>

## What is this?

ktb.clubmanager is open-source club management software built for German *Vereine*. It combines member management with proper double-entry accounting using the SKR42 chart of accounts.

**Why does this exist?** Most club software either lacks real accounting or costs hundreds per year. ktb.clubmanager is free, web-based, and handles the accounting complexity that volunteer treasurers need.

**Key differentiators:**
- SKR42 chart of accounts (German nonprofit standard)
- SEPA direct debit generation (pain.008 XML)
- German bank CSV import (Sparkasse, VR, DKB, etc.)

## Key Features

- **Member management** - Track members, households, and membership history
- **Fee tracking** - Flexible fee structures, payment status, reminders
- **Double-entry bookkeeping** - SKR42 compliant, proper journal entries
- **SEPA direct debit** - Generate pain.008 files for bank submission
- **Bank import** - Import transactions from German bank CSV exports
- **Multi-tenant** - Manage multiple clubs from one installation

## Screenshots

<div align="center">
<table>
<tr>
<td align="center"><strong>Light Mode</strong></td>
<td align="center"><strong>Dark Mode</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="docs/assets/components-light.png"><img src="docs/assets/components-light.png" alt="Light Mode" width="400"></a></td>
<td><a href="docs/assets/components-dark.png"><img src="docs/assets/components-dark.png" alt="Dark Mode" width="400"></a></td>
</tr>
</table>

<em>UI components built with shadcn/ui and Tailwind CSS v4 (click to enlarge)</em>

</div>

## Quick Start

The fastest way to get started uses VS Code DevContainers:

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/kbudisantoso/ktb.clubmanager.git
   cd ktb.clubmanager
   ```

2. **Open in VS Code** and click "Reopen in Container" when prompted

3. **Start development**
   ```bash
   pnpm dev
   ```

The web app is available at `http://localhost:3000`.

## Development Setup

If you prefer not to use DevContainers, set up manually:

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 20+
- pnpm 10+
- Docker (for PostgreSQL, Redis, MinIO)

### Installation

```bash
git clone https://github.com/kbudisantoso/ktb.clubmanager.git
cd ktb.clubmanager
pnpm install
docker compose up -d
pnpm dev
```

### Common Commands

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `pnpm dev` | Start all development servers (web + api) |
| `pnpm dev:web` | Start only the web frontend |
| `pnpm dev:api` | Start only the API backend |
| `pnpm test` | Run all tests |
| `pnpm lint` | Check code quality |
| `pnpm typecheck` | Verify TypeScript types |
| `pnpm prepare-commit` | Run all checks before committing |

### Port Configuration

By default, the web app runs on port 3000 and the API on port 3001. You can customize ports via `.env.local` or command line:

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `PORT` | 3000 | Base port (web uses this, API uses PORT+1) |
| `WEB_PORT` | - | Override web port explicitly |
| `API_PORT` | - | Override API port explicitly |

**Examples:**

| Configuration | Web Port | API Port |
|---------------|----------|----------|
| Default | 3000 | 3001 |
| `PORT=4000` | 4000 | 4001 |
| `WEB_PORT=8000` | 8000 | 3001 |
| `API_PORT=9000` | 3000 | 9000 |
| `WEB_PORT=8000 API_PORT=9000` | 8000 | 9000 |

> **Tip:** Set variables in `.env.local` for persistent configuration. The dev scripts automatically load this file via `dotenv-cli`.

## Local Customizations

You can customize the DevContainer without affecting committed files. Edit `.devcontainer/docker-compose.local.yml` (auto-created, gitignored) to add personal volume mounts or environment variables.

See [.devcontainer/README.md](.devcontainer/README.md) for details.

## Architecture

```mermaid
graph TB
    subgraph "Frontend (apps/web)"
        WEB[Next.js 14+]
    end

    subgraph "Backend (apps/api)"
        API[NestJS]
        PRISMA[Prisma ORM]
    end

    subgraph "Shared (packages/shared)"
        TYPES[Types & Zod Schemas]
    end

    subgraph "Infrastructure"
        PG[(PostgreSQL 17<br/>+ pgvector)]
        RD[(Redis 7)]
        MINIO[(MinIO)]
    end

    WEB --> API
    WEB --> TYPES
    API --> TYPES
    API --> PRISMA
    PRISMA --> PG
    API --> RD
    API --> MINIO
```

The project is a **pnpm monorepo** with two applications (`web` and `api`) sharing types and validation schemas through a common package.

## Tech Stack

| Component | Technology | Why |
|-----------|------------|-----|
| Frontend | Next.js 14+, TypeScript, Tailwind, shadcn/ui | Modern React with full-stack TypeScript |
| Backend | NestJS, TypeScript, Prisma | Type safety for financial data |
| Database | PostgreSQL 17 + pgvector | ACID for accounting, vectors for AI semantic search |
| Storage | MinIO (S3-compatible) | Document uploads, receipt images, profile photos |
| Cache | Redis 7 | Session storage, background jobs |
| Auth | NextAuth.js + OIDC | Passwordless OAuth login |

## Roadmap

Track our progress via [GitHub Milestones](https://github.com/kbudisantoso/ktb.clubmanager/milestones):

| Milestone | Status | Description |
|-----------|--------|-------------|
| [M0: Pre-MVP](https://github.com/kbudisantoso/ktb.clubmanager/milestone/1) | ✅ Complete | Repository foundation, DevContainer, CI/CD, documentation |
| [M1: MVP](https://github.com/kbudisantoso/ktb.clubmanager/milestone/2) | 🔄 In Progress | Core features: members, fees, bookkeeping, SEPA |
| [M2-M6](https://github.com/kbudisantoso/ktb.clubmanager/milestones) | 📋 Planned | Post-MVP: working hours, member portal, FinTS |

See all [open issues](https://github.com/kbudisantoso/ktb.clubmanager/issues) for detailed requirements.

## Contributing

We welcome contributions from developers of all experience levels. Whether you want to fix a bug, add a feature, or improve documentation, your help is appreciated.

- Read our [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) guide to get started
- First-time contributors: you'll sign a simple CLA when opening your first PR

## Documentation

- [Architecture Decision Records](docs/adr/) - Why we made key technical decisions
- [API Documentation](docs/api/) - OpenAPI/Swagger documentation (available at `/api/docs` in development)
- [Database Schema](docs/schema/) - Entity relationship diagrams and schema documentation

See [docs/README.md](docs/README.md) for the full documentation index.

## License

ktb.clubmanager is licensed under the [GNU Affero General Public License v3.0](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0).

This means you can use, modify, and distribute the software freely. If you run a modified version as a network service, you must make your source code available to users.

See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for the full license text.
